study.md, before:

# Rails as an API Study

Use your favorite search engine and the provided readings to research and
respond to the following questions.

In your responses, be sure to cite any relevant sources you consulted in your
search. We ask you to write responses in your own words in order to see how you
process what you've read. Please do not respond with direct quotes from source
material. Instead, digest what you've read and repeat it in your own voice.

Please note:

-   Many of the readings will mention the "view" layer. We won't be covering the
    view layer in this program.
-   We'll use our [Rails API Template](https://github.com/ga-wdi-boston/rails-api-template)
    repository as the basis for our rails applications.
    This template excludes the "view" layer.

## Required Readings

-   Better Explained
    -   [Starting Ruby on Rails: What I Wish I Knew](http://betterexplained.com/articles/starting-ruby-on-rails-what-i-wish-i-knew/)
        (sections 3 and 4)
    -   [Intermediate Rails: Understanding Models, Views and Controllers](http://betterexplained.com/articles/intermediate-rails-understanding-models-views-and-controllers/)
        (up to and including "Quick Controllers")
-   Ruby on Rails Guides
    -   [Rails Routing from the Outside](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/routing.html)
        (up to and including chapter 2.6)
    -   [Action Controller Overview](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html)
        (up to and including chapter 4.5)
    -   [The Rails Command Line](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/command_line.html)
        (up to and including chapter 1.4)

## Additional Resources

-   [Getting Started with Rails — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)

## Define Model Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the model layer are in
Rails.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

## Define Controller Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the controller layer are
in Rails.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

## Define Router Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the router does in Rails.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

## The Request-Response Cycle in Rails

Starting with a client making a GET request to a particular URL, describe how
the parts of Rails interact to produce and send a response.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

Commit message:

RAILS API STUDY questions answered

study.md, after:

# Rails as an API Study

Use your favorite search engine and the provided readings to research and
respond to the following questions.

In your responses, be sure to cite any relevant sources you consulted in your
search. We ask you to write responses in your own words in order to see how you
process what you've read. Please do not respond with direct quotes from source
material. Instead, digest what you've read and repeat it in your own voice.

Please note:

-   Many of the readings will mention the "view" layer. We won't be covering the
    view layer in this program.
-   We'll use our [Rails API Template](https://github.com/ga-wdi-boston/rails-api-template)
    repository as the basis for our rails applications.
    This template excludes the "view" layer.

## Required Readings

-   Better Explained
    -   [Starting Ruby on Rails: What I Wish I Knew](http://betterexplained.com/articles/starting-ruby-on-rails-what-i-wish-i-knew/)
        (sections 3 and 4)
    -   [Intermediate Rails: Understanding Models, Views and Controllers](http://betterexplained.com/articles/intermediate-rails-understanding-models-views-and-controllers/)
        (up to and including "Quick Controllers")
-   Ruby on Rails Guides
    -   [Rails Routing from the Outside](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/routing.html)
        (up to and including chapter 2.6)
    -   [Action Controller Overview](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html)
        (up to and including chapter 4.5)
    -   [The Rails Command Line](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/command_line.html)
        (up to and including chapter 1.4)

## Additional Resources

-   [Getting Started with Rails — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)

## Define Model Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the model layer are in
Rails.

```md
They are the backbone of the operation.  They retrieve whatever you need from the database.  They talk to the db, store and validate data.
```

## Define Controller Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the controller layer are
in Rails.

```md
controllers handle user/client requests and basically all encompassing browser tasks (data submissions, cookes and sessions)
```

## Define Router Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the router does in Rails.

```md
it detects URLs and points them towards the correct controller action, pairing it with the first matching route.
```

## The Request-Response Cycle in Rails

Starting with a client making a GET request to a particular URL, describe how
the parts of Rails interact to produce and send a response.

```md
When Rails receives a GET request, it turns to the router and asks it to match it to a route.  Whatever the first matching route that makes sense with the call, then it will pull whatever data the request was for.
```
